docs/md/content/install.md, before:

---
title: "Installation"
description: "Steps to install PCT on Windows, macOS and Linux."
weight: 10
---

## Installing

While the PCT is in early release, we provide an archive and a simple script to unpack it. When we move closer to a full release we will add a platform specific installer. Use the `install.[ps1|sh]` script, depending upon your OS:

{{< tabpane langEqualsHeader=false >}}
{{< tab header="Unix" lang="Bash" >}}
curl -L https://pup.pt/pdkgo/install.sh | sh
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Windows" lang="Powershell" >}}
iex "&{ $(irm https://pup.pt/pdkgo/install.ps1); Install-Pct }"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane >}}


This will install the latest release of PCT to `~/.puppetlabs/pct`.

![install_pct](https://github.com/puppetlabs/pdkgo/blob/main/docs/_resources/install_and_export_path.gif?raw=true)

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
If you do not use the install script and are extracting the archive yourself, be sure to use the fully qualified path to `~/.puppetlabs/pct` on *nix or `$HOME/.puppetlabs/pct` on Windows when you set your `PATH` environment variable.
{{% /alert %}}

A version of the product, with telemetry functionality disabled, is available too.
See [here](#installing-telemetry-free-version) for instructions on how to install it.

### Setting up Tab Completion

After installation, we'd highly recommend setting up tab completion for your shell to ensure the best possible experience.

PCT has built in tab completion support for the following shells: `bash`, `zsh`, `fish` and `powershell`.

To view the install instructions, access the `--help` menu in `pct completion` and follow the instructions for your shell:

![tab_completion](https://github.com/puppetlabs/pdkgo/blob/main/docs/_resources/completion_setup.gif?raw=true)

## Installing Telemetry Free Version

As of `0.5.0`, we have been gathering telemetry data to provide insights in to how our products are being used.

The following data is collected:

- Version of application in use
- OS / platform of the device
- What commands have been invoked (including command args)
- Any errors that occurred when running the application

We understand that there will be some users who prefer to have no telemetry data sent.
For those users, we offer a version of PCT with the telemetry functionality disabled.

To install:

{{< tabpane langEqualsHeader=false >}}
{{< tab header="Unix" lang="Bash" >}}
curl -L https://pup.pt/pdkgo/install.sh | sh -s -- --no-telemetry
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Windows" lang="Powershell" >}}
iex "&{ $(irm https://pup.pt/pdkgo/install.ps1); Install-Pct -NoTelemetry }"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

This will install the latest release of PCT, without telemetry functionality, to `~/.puppetlabs/pct`.

Commit message:

(GH-11) Update docs for terminal rendering
Prior to this commit, the documentation for the project included minimal
frontmatter metadata and utilized hugo shortcodes.

This commit updates the documentation to add the following frontmatter fields:

- category (concept, narrative): What sort of documentation a user can expect,
  used for filtering down available topics
- tags (string): A freeform list of tags to associate to documents, used for
  filtering down available topics
- skipTerminal (bool): Whether or not a document should *not* be rendered in
  the terminal; typically for index pages which are not themselves useful

This commit also removes all shortcodes from the documentation; while the
shortcodes are themselves extremely useful for the website display, they
break the initial parsing for the terminal. A future commit adding handlers
to the docs package for these shortcodes may enable putting them back.

A few notes on things that do not work with the terminal renderer currently:

- Quote blocks behave strangely; they do not respect paragraph semantics of
  markdown (a single newline is treated as a para break instead of continuing
  the same para) and they do not display nested code blocks at all.
- Something about tables breaks in file-parsed markdown but not in string-built
  markdown; this prematurely ends the entire file but fails silently.

These problems will need to be addressed in the future, possibly via upstream
fixes to the glamour library (which renders markdown in the terminal).

docs/md/content/install.md, after:

---
title: "Installation"
description: "Steps to install PCT on Windows, macOS and Linux."
category: narrative
tags:
  - fundamentals
  - install
weight: 10
---

While the PCT is in early release, we provide an archive and a simple script to unpack it. When we move closer to a full release we will add a platform specific installer. Use the `install.[ps1|sh]` script, depending upon your OS:

### Bash

```bash
curl -L https://pup.pt/pdkgo/install.sh | sh
```

### PowerShell

```powershell
iex "&{ $(irm 'https://pup.pt/pdkgo/install.ps1'); Install-Pct }"
```

This will install the latest release of PCT to `~/.puppetlabs/pct`.

![install_pct](https://github.com/puppetlabs/pdkgo/blob/main/docs/_resources/install_and_export_path.gif?raw=true)

> **Warning!**
>
> If you do not use the install script and are extracting the archive yourself, be sure to use the fully qualified path to `~/.puppetlabs/pct` on *nix or `$HOME/.puppetlabs/pct` on Windows when you set your `PATH` environment variable.

A version of the product, with telemetry functionality disabled, is available too.
See [here](#installing-telemetry-free-version) for instructions on how to install it.

### Setting up Tab Completion

After installation, we'd highly recommend setting up tab completion for your shell to ensure the best possible experience.

PCT has built in tab completion support for the following shells: `bash`, `zsh`, `fish` and `powershell`.

To view the install instructions, access the `--help` menu in `pct completion` and follow the instructions for your shell:

![tab_completion](https://github.com/puppetlabs/pdkgo/blob/main/docs/_resources/completion_setup.gif?raw=true)

## Installing Telemetry Free Version

As of `0.5.0`, we have been gathering telemetry data to provide insights in to how our products are being used.

The following data is collected:

- Version of application in use
- OS / platform of the device
- What commands have been invoked (including command args)
- Any errors that occurred when running the application

We understand that there will be some users who prefer to have no telemetry data sent.
For those users, we offer a version of PCT with the telemetry functionality disabled.

To install:

### Bash

```bash
curl -L https://pup.pt/pdkgo/install.sh | sh -s -- --no-telemetry
```

### PowerShell

```powershell
iex "&{ $(irm 'https://pup.pt/pdkgo/install.ps1'); Install-Pct -NoTelemetry }"
```

This will install the latest release of PCT, without telemetry functionality, to `~/.puppetlabs/pct`.
